well hello my friend we gotta stop
meeting like this yeah yeah you know
it's uh it's kind of kind of funny given
the theme of the conversation that it's
you know the future and everything
yeah really we've got such an unusual
setup here let me ask a really simple
question are you a traitor
[Music]
our breaking news this evening is the
identity of the man who sent the Obama
administration in to defend and explain
mode this week his name is Edward
Snowden he's an American former CIA
employee and computer technician mr.
Snowden has been charged with very
serious crimes
we understand that he departed Hong Kong
yesterday and that he arrived in Russia
Snowden is hoping to convince the
Russian government to let him stay in
Moscow he should do what many people who
have taken issue with their own
government do which is accept the
consequences of that act of civil
disobedience Edward Snowden's actions
have elicited a range of reactions as
your hero or a criminal whistleblower or
trader when people ask this question and
it's it's a fairly common question I
think they're missing what's important
which is it doesn't really matter
whether I'm a hero or traitor or
anything else I'm just a citizen with a
voice I'm a guy who gave information to
American journalists to the Free Press
so that we could know what's going on
what the reality of our world is what
the government's doing in our name or
without our knowledge and consent the
real question they should be asking is
not as this guy hero is this guy a
traitor
it's would you rather not know what's
really going on the United States
government is collecting all of our
metadata at listening stations like this
one in Cornwall GCHQ taps fiber-optic
cables that carry Internet data huge
databases containing personal
information about a wide range of people
are currently not subject to any
legislation I don't think people often
think about the reality of the situation
at hand you're a guy they talk about on
the news you're not even real you just
did something that pissed some people
off I think he's a traitor I hope we can
catch him Snowden is quote a grandiose
narcissist who deserves to be in prison
and Republican Senator Lindsey Graham
south carolina tweeted I hope we follow
mr. Snowden to the ends of the earth
Snowden put a lot of Americans lives at
risk
Snowden broke the law whistleblowers do
not run to Russia and try to get
protection from Putin I don't think he
should be brought home without facing
the music he broke the laws of the
United States he did break the law and I
think there should be a penalty to that
but I think what he did in educating us
should be taken into consideration
now I would bring him home the American
government was acting illegally that's
what the federal courts have said
I'm being charged under laws that don't
provide a Public Interest defense you're
not allowed to argue to the jury or even
mention why you did what you did
rather they create a closed courtroom
where they control the kind of evidence
that you can present they control the
kind of arguments that you're allowed to
provide Thomas Drake another NSA
whistleblower he couldn't even say the
word whistleblower because it might make
the jury think about whether or not what
the government was doing was wrong
given the fact of an open investigation
I'm not gonna dwell on mr. Snowden's
actions or his motivations I will say
that our nation's defense depends in
part on the fidelity of those entrusted
with our nation's secrets if any
individual who objects to government
policy can take it into their own hands
to publicly disclose classified
information then we will not be able to
keep our people safe the reason the
United States government justified it's
very heavy response to the revelation of
unlawful mass surveillance in the United
States was that they said it was saving
lives it was keeping us safe now we're
in 2015 and they've never shown a single
instance a single case where even one
person was harmed as a result of these
disclosures and despite the fact that
this is American society this is
supposed to be a free and open and
liberal society where we have freedom of
the press defenders of the NSA want to
talk about the theoretical risks of
journalism instead of the concrete harms
of surveillance and that I think it's
something that we should reject
let's think about the world for a minute
know which I'm I think that you probably
think about quite a bit how do you think
we're doing right now it's something
that makes me simultaneously optimistic
and pessimistic we do have the
opportunity to basically ruin everything
and end up in a garbage pile their
issues with climate change the
exploitation of Technology new
developments in the relationship between
the governing and the government we are
living in a time today where people with
the most power and most privilege in
society are held to a lower standard of
behavior than the most ordinary people
among us what would you change if it
could change anything in the world I
think it would be the level of fairness
we have a fundamental instability in
many regions around the world who's
fighting
there's terrorism there are crime waves
and there's also deprivation and many
basic resources the things that our
ancestors throughout millennia of human
progression have been taken for granted
but now are becoming a little bit more
scarce and a lot more controlled the
idea that we have 1% of individuals in
the world controlling a much larger
graded percentage of resources than
another 90 percent of people is not just
an economic injustice it's a more and
justice and today I think we're seeing
the dangers of what happens when we
don't address those problems why
wouldn't the NSA interrupt this
interview could they they're definitely
listening right now because we're using
a Google service and Google is actually
let me the largest Internet service
providers in the United States had
created secret systems of cooperation to
provide access to the communications of
anybody who's suspected are targeted of
being of interest that they can secretly
provide information directly off of
their servers and the technology that
we're using
Google Hangouts creates copies of these
video feeds that they can then provide
on request to for example the FBI now in
the case of an American that would
require a hopefully at least a warrant
but for everyone else in the world they
don't use warrants at all there's no
court that's involved in reviewing the
evidence against someone instead a
single official in the United States
signs an authorization not on the basis
of evidence but simply on a reasonable
articulable suspicion they can entitle
themselves to all of your private
records from all of these services but
there's a broader point about that which
is that this is what mass surveillance
means the government doesn't like to use
the word master and you'll never see
them under those words instead they'll
talk about bulk collection bulk
collection is a euphemism for mass
surveillance what it means is as you
send your emails as you go through your
web transactions every days you visit
this site as you post on Facebook or
send a tweet all of these transactions
as they cross the physical lines that
are buried under the ground and under
the seed are intercepted they're
analyzed they're filter they're stored
and they're retained what the NSA will
say is the difference is yes we have it
yes we keep it yes we do things with it
but we promise we won't use it for a bad
purpose unless you're a bad guy and when
you think about it at first glance it
seems very persuasive we go well if
we're not doing anything wrong we don't
have anything to be afraid of right but
it's not really about something to hide
it's about something to lose and that's
our power in civil society that's our
influence that's our rights and this is
not just a u.s. problem Russia China
France Germany they're all beginning to
do this and they're saying we want to
engage in pre criminal investigation we
want to watch everyone all the time
because they might do something wrong
someday
and we want to go back in time and see
what they did
[Music]
we're saying simply thinking ideas that
are unacceptable to the United States
creates an open season without regard to
whether or not they'd actually done
anything wrong or not that's a radically
different world that we're living and
that's a radically different policy that
we've adopted and while some people may
say oh yeah sure let's go there
everyone should agree that these are
decisions that should be made by the
public rather than by a few officials
sitting behind closed doors arguing that
you don't care about the right to the
privacy because you've got nothing to
hide is the same as saying you don't
care about free speech because you have
nothing to say individual rights benefit
everyone collectively these are
fundamental protections that once lost
for a moment are lost forever do you
miss us back home of course you know
I've constantly said that I'd be happy
to come home it's unfortunate that the
US government has been unwilling to
offer a fair trial they simply want to
forget about it they want to move on
they want to ignore it they want to
pretend the problems aren't there but
thanks to the advancement of Technology
I'm more connected to people at home now
than I have been ever before I am able
to sit here in the US with you I'm able
to speak at universities and it's I've
got to say it's incredible and I feel
incredibly fortunate
ultimately home isn't about what you own
it's about what you feel
it's about your connections and what I
found more than anything else from
living in exile is that home can become
something that travels with you even
though I've lost some things I sleep
better now than I ever have before
because I can be proud of the decisions
I've made and when I think about what
what ultimately matters when you look
back on your life and you think about
what you've done is that you understand
what you care about and ultimately you
can be proud of the choices that you've
made
[Music]
you